

spec_extracted.txt
Purpose: Extracted/plain-text copy of the project specification for quick reference.


--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
Project Description 
The Design Document (Phase 1) must be submitted by February 23rd at 23:59 
The Implementation Report (Phase 2) must be submitted by Friday, April 2nd at 23:59  
ONE and ONLY ONE Submission per Team through course Moodle.  
Incomplete and inappropriate submissions will be penalized 
Project Demos will begin on April 7th 
 
 
RENTRUCK Inc. 
RENTRUCK Company is a young Montreal firm, specialized in the rental of trucks with 
driver. It has a fleet of a hundred trucks of all types, and currently has a thousand regular 
customers, mostly businesses. Its business is growing strongly, so the CEO has decided to 
automate gradually the management of the company. 
Description of the different activities related to the rental of trucks. 
A. MISSIONS 
The rent als have a variable duration. The drivers  return necessarily to the garage  with 
their truck  at the week end. Each mission  cannot exceed 5  days (Monday  morning to 
Friday evening). So a rental is treated as N missions for a maximum duration of five days 
each. 
A mission  begins when  the truck leaves  the garage  (even if the appointment is set at  
another location) and ends when the truck returns to the garage. 
The number of missions generally varies from 100 to 800 per week. 
The driver goes with the  rented truck to the appointment fixed by  the customer, and is 
available to him for the whole duration of the mission (until Friday evening at the latest). 
A driver can  drive any  vehicle if s/he has  the corresponding driving license : tourism, 
heavyweight, super heavyweight. 

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
B. RESERVATIONS 
Reservations are made by phone with the sales department. A customer can book a truck 
several weeks in advance for a period of maximum one year. The customer may of course 
modify or cancel all or part  of a reservation,  if it is reques ted no later than  one week  
before starting a mission. 
 
The form  used by  RENTRUCK for reservations is  designed to  decompose easily a 
reservation into missions. Thus, the information provided  by the client  can establish for 
each mission a record including: 
 Number, name or business name and address of the client; 
 Type of vehicle desired; 
 The place of rendezvous; 
 The date and time of appointment; 
 The expected duration for vehicle and driver disposal. 
The portfolio of missions may include up to 10,000 missions to realize. 
C. PREPARATION OF MISSIONS 
The staff working at the sales department then performs the following tasks: 
 From the information provided by the client when booking, the staff determines 
the date and the start and end time of the missions; 
 It assigns the drivers and vehicles for each mission . This assignment is  currently 
done manually, using schedules wall. The manual process, though heavy, will be 
kept for some time : the atomization of the process will be the subject  of further 
study. 
This allows it to harmonize booking requests and opportunities for the company's service, 
for each mission. 
They plan to computerize the subsequent procedure. 
Thus the "mission sheets" definitely established will be daily filled out in the terminals 
(the same garage) in order to  create for each  mission a record in the  database 
"RENTRUCK". They seek to minimize the volume of the seizure. 
During the weekends, they plan to publish mission sheets for drivers. These documents 
define the missions  that will be performed during the fol lowing week, due to a mission 
per sheet. They will also be used for billing of rentals. 
We will not deal , in this context, the case of bookings made in midweek for the current 
week (midweek bookings are not included). 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
D. BILLING 
A weekly invoice is sent to customers. 
A customer can  rent several vehicles  simultaneously or  successively. In this case , the 
invoice includes a line by mission. 
Invoices are partly compiled from the mission sheet completed by drivers. They enroll in 
effect: 
 Actual dates and hours  of start and end of the mission , if they differ from  what 
was expected; 
 The value of the vehicle odometer in the garage before and after return. 
The data necessary for billing  on the “mission sheet” are daily entered  from terminals. 
We look again to minimize the volume of the seizure. 
The rental cost charged includes: 
 A proportional fraction to the duration of the mission; 
 And a proportional part to the browsed kilometers. 
These two costs obviously depend on the rented vehicle. 
The invoice payment is being made by credit card, cash or check. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
 
 
MARKING GUIDELINES OF THIS PROJECT 
IMPORTANT: For this project, you MUST use the MySQL database of Concordia 
to execute queries and to interact from th e system Web-based front-end or desktop 
system. This desktop must be transferred to the Concordia Server for testing it. 
DISTRIBUTION OF MARKS 
Activities Marks 
Conceptual Model 13 pts. 
Logical Model 10 pts. 
Relational Model 10 pts. 
Normalization of Relation (3NF) into logical model 10 pts. 
Constraints 10 pts. 
SQL Script of the creation of tables 10 pts. 
Insertion of data (10 rows minimum for each STRONG table 
and 5 rows minimum for each WEAK table) 
10 pts. 
Implementation of the list o f 11 Queries given below by 
providing the implementation details of your database system 
using the MySQL DBMS with a suitable user interfaces. 
#a : 2 pts. 
#b : 2 pts. 
#c : 3 pts. 
#d : 3 pts. 
#e : 4 pts. 
#f : 2 pts. 
#g : 2 pts. 
#h : 3 pts. 
 #i : 2 pts. 
 #j : 2 pts. 
#k : 2 pts. 
27 pts. 
 TOTAL 100% 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
 
GUIDELINE FOR PREPARING PROJECT REPORT 
Your project report MUST: 
 Be properly formatted; 
 Have group name, official names of the team members, and student ID's 
clearly printed on the cover; 
Inappropriate submission will be marked zero (0).  
At the end of the term , the teams will present their projects. You need to submit a 
technical document, called  Project_GroupId, which describes your analysis and 
design. This docume nt must be submitted electronically with the following 
information about the team members: the names and student IDs at 
https://fis.encs.concordia.ca/eas. 
Each team project. Each member is responsible for t he entire project and at least 
a well-defined portion of the project, to be agreed by the team members.  
Each team will have 15 minutes to demonstrate their project. Every member of a 
team must be present during their project demo. 
The document report MUST contain the following sections: 
1. Conceptual Diagram. 
2. Logical Diagram of your conceptual diagram provided in the section 1. 
3. Relational diagram of your logical diagram provided in the section 2 
4. Explain in plain English the normalization applied to the logical diagram. 
5. Explain in plain English the different constraints used to the attributes of tables 
(NOT NULL, CHECK, primary key, foreign key, UNIQUE, etc.) 
6. SQL Script of the creation of tables 
7. Insertion of data for each table (10 rows minimum for each STRONG table and 
5 minimum for each WEAK table) 
8. Queries (Simples with different tables and Complex with inner SQL) that have 
been implemented to satisfy project requirements as follows : 
a. List of customers that are businesses (Enterprises or Companies). 
b. List of reservations whose reservation number is greater than 1. 
c. List of drivers and vehicles having participated in at least one mission. 
d. List of missions between March 11, 202 6 and March 18, 202 6 as well as 
the drivers and vehicles participating in these missions. 
e. The list of customers who have not paid their invoices. 
f. List of drivers who have driven 'GMC' brand vehicles. 
g. Which customers have invoices greater than $1000? 
h. List of customers with their number of associated invoices. 
i. What are the last names and first n ames of the drivers who have a mission 
between the following dates: February 1, 202 6 and March 31, 2026 whose 
mileage (number of kilometers traveled) is more than 7000 km? 

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
 
j. Write a transaction to update details of a mission, given the mission ID. 
(We expect the end date to change according). 
k. Write a transaction to cancel a mission or part of a mission. 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
 
 
GUIDELINES FOR DEMO 
 
All the members of a team MUST actively participate in the demo of their project and 
answer questions. Therefore, you should decide ahead which team member will be 
responsible to demonstrate which part. 
You shall start with a brief presentation on the assumptions you have made, E -R 
Diagram, E -R to relation conversio n and normalization. So , prepare a couple of slides 
accordingly. 
Then you will present the functionalities implemented in your project to satisfy the 
requirements mentioned in the project description. You shall be using the developed 
application system. 
Any additional feature(s) that you have implemented to complement the project can be 
presented during the demo. 
 